Hello and welcome to the next work, for example,
for the procedural shading course in this work for example,
we're going to take a look at how to create this advanced wall shader that is
building up from the wall share that we've done in the first work for example,
and adds the functionality too,
scratch off the plaster for a hidden underlying wooden structure
that can be dynamically removed with using the vertex colors.
And this is the no tree. I know it looks quite scary at the first sight, but
we're going to break it down step by step
and we're not going to completely start from scratch because we already have the
plaster material which is this part of the no tree.
That is what we did in the first work for example.
So we're going to build up from that and
what's left to create is the
pattern of the wooden structure underneath
and then also the mask to blend between them.
I showed this material as well in the video about blending and masking
and yeah, in this video we're going to build it from the ground up.
This is probably going to be a long one. I'm going to go into detail of every step.
And uh yeah, so let's get started.
Alright, so to increase the general performance,
I'm going to go into the isolated local view
for only this wall object that's already running a lot smoother.
Um but yeah,
first we have to get rid of this material and start with a completely new one.
And first let's start with generating the
pattern for the underlying wooden structure.
Now this material is interesting because it includes a bunch
of techniques that we haven't taken a look at it.
The previous work for examples and it builds on a couple of things that I've
talked about in the video series but I haven't used for the other work for examples
for example how to create more advanced patterns,
which is what we are going to start with now
because first for the one structure,
you want some horizontal bars and for this I'm going to use the
position
coordinates
to detach the structure from the object itself but fix
it in place and what I want from these position coordinates
is the zet component
because the horizontal bars are going to be along this axis.
Let's collapse this node.
And so I add and
a multiply known to scale
the component up.
And actually I'm going to add in
a value input node to control the scale value
and now I want to repeat these coordinates
by
adding in another math node
and I said it to the ping pong operation
as you have seen me doing before
and when I set the scale to one and make sure that these
black lines are exactly zero and the white lines are exactly at one.
So I can fix the minimum maximum values
and now there's value, input node controls basically the frequency of these bars
and now we have the base texture for these bars already done
What I want to do to add some more control
is getting a Rgb curves known
and now I can exactly control the profile of these bars.
Let me do something like this.
You can still change that later on.
And this is the black parts are going to be the gap between the bars
and the white parts are going to be the
bars and I already included some roundness to the edge
which we're going to use later for the height map.
Let's move this out of the way for now
and
also add some vertical bars.
Now this is going to work in a similar way
but now I don't want to use the position coordinates
because that's not going to work for the other direction
because if you think about it,
I will have walls that are placed perpendicular to this one.
And if I would just take the Y component of the world coordinates
to get the component along this axis,
it would not work the same way for a
while that is repeated around his axis.
So instead I have to use coordinates that are stuck
to the surface for a rotation along these access.
And I'm going to use generated coordinates for that.
So that's adding another separate exposition on and
here because it's a different coordinate space.
I'm going to just use the X coordinates.
Mhm.
It's collapsed these again.
And then I do the exact same thing as with the horizontal bars I multiply
and use ping pong.
uh this value note again, let's go for 15
And the Ping Pong to one.
Because what I want is to have
vertical bars that are much more spars and
have larger gaps than the horizontal bars.
And now that's adding a map range known.
And with that map range note, now
we can change
where these bars actually are.
The bars are going to be placed very thin along one of these axes.
And for that,
I don't want to use the exact same technique I've been using
with this RgB curve to control the gaps by just moving them directly
because that would mean that the profile would end up very
squished on the side
and the control would be worse.
So instead
I'm going to first use a map range note. And for that define the range
as something else. For example, here I'm going to take
.2 and .1
as the inputs.
And that way I can nicely select the outer and inner edge of the profile.
And because I'm clamping the value here,
this whole area is exactly zero and the
area inside without the transition is exactly one.
And now still I can control the profile of this transition with an Rgb curve
and now I can make it more like this
and this is pretty much the same technique as here.
But now I have a more convenient way of controlling the transition range
and now we have the vertical bars taken care of as well
as you can see they are approximately the same with but
one has much larger gaps between them.
Next let's just take care of the third and final element that we have in the
wooden structure, which are the bolts
that said exactly at the cross section of those bars.
And because of the fact that they are supposed
to exactly use those positions of the cross sections,
I can actually take the coordinates directly
from both those horizontal and vertical bars.
So for the bolts, I'm going to build a new coordinate system
based on
the coordinates I have
by using a combined X Y Z node.
And now let's see what do we need.
I'm going to just take the scaled up coordinates and
let's see this one is going to be my Y coordinate
And
this scaled up, one is going to be my x coordinate
long this direction.
So for now let's just plug those in here.
And that's actually swapped these around. So it is a little bit more readable.
And let's take a look.
Okay, so these are going to be the coordinates for my bolts.
Let's use a vector math operation
because what I want to do is create cells
where each cell contains a bolt
and taking a look at these patterns. That means the
the edges of these cells
have to be exactly
in the center of these black areas here. And if I just use the stretched coordinates
that I have here now,
I can simply use the fraction operation
mhm
to get exactly those smaller cell departments for the bolts.
But this is getting a little bit difficult
to handle because you don't really see what we
are doing and what I want to do to help with that is at a math known
and combine these two height maps
with the maximum operation.
So you can actually see what the whole pattern is going to look like.
And now we can see where the bolts are going to sit
which is exactly here.
And these are supposed to be the centers of the cells that we need here.
Let's take a look.
And as you can see that's
not the case
right now they're on the edges of where we need them.
And also they are not the right size.
And the reason for that is that the ping pong operation
that we're using to create the bars goes from 0 to 1
And then back to zero again.
But the length between these edges here is exactly two and not one.
But what the fraction operation does
Is only go from 0 to 1
And then again from 0 to 1.
So the length of these cells is half the size
of the length between these edges here, which is exactly what you can see here.
So we have to do to counter this is adding another math note here,
That divides by two
to stretch the whole thing out
and with the same thing
and do the same thing for the other component.
Now the cells are the right size as you can see here
but they are still not the correct spot.
They need to be shifted
in the
X direction.
So the positions of the bolts are actually in the center of these cells.
And to do that, you can simply after this divide operation, add in a
subtract operation.
And by subtracting 0.5,
the fraction operation is going to exactly be shifted by half
as you can see here.
If I subtract zero,
it is the same as if I subtracted one
Because the fraction Operation Wraps around at one.
If I go to 0.5 it's going to be exactly shifted by half
which is
exactly what I need.
And now
if we take a look at these,
you can see that the centers of these cross sections
are all exactly in the center of these cells.
So now you've already taken care of the correct positioning of the bolts
and we only have to create the balls themselves.
You can simply do that by subtracting
A vector of 0.5
and both wine
X axis
to center the coordinate system
that we get from this
exactly in each cell.
And now we can
use another vector math notes, set to length
to get the radius in there.
And here we can see that these are not exactly circles.
These shapes are more elliptical and the reason for that is that it is stretched.
You can simply counter that by
multiplying
with a vector that you have to
choose depending on the geometry.
Let's just call for something
like this. We can still take a look at what it looks like
and right now we still have this gradient which we are going to use later,
but for now I want to see what the ball is going to look like
and for that I'm going to convert it into an actual bullion mosque by simply using the
less than operation.
We can choose the radius of the balls and you
can see that it is still a little bit stretched.
Let's go for something like four
and now it looks much more circular.
And now to take another look at
how this looks like in the whole picture.
Let's just
subtract the mask of the bolts that we have generated from the mosque of the bars
and here we go,
you can see that the bulls are in exactly the right
place so we can move on to the next part.
Let me just slim down this preview. So we have more space to work with.
It's already getting a little bit crowded here.
These notes here by the way are just for preview so we can see what we are doing.
So let's go ahead and start mixing the PBR maps from these base textures.
What I want is a mask of where the wood and the bolts are going to be
for the balls. I already have exactly that with this less than known.
But for the would I have to still
generate something
and for that I'm going to use the greater than node
Set it to
greater than zero.
And just
for the horizontal bars, use this uh part of the RGB curves note
and for the vertical bars, I'm going to do pretty much the same thing.
But here I'm going to already grab this output because there
it is already scaled to the right range.
I have the individual mosques
for both the boards
and I'm going to combine them with another maximum note.
This mosque now only contains the
Values of zero and one
where the
wood is going to be
including the bolts right now.
So to mix a color map, we're going to first
makes the background color with the wood colour,
which is just going to be some
brownish color
for the background. I'm just going to choose black for now
And then in a second step, we're going to
mixing the bolts as well
using some
gravestone.
Yeah,
we can still adjust those later
and that is the base pattern. Already taken care of.
And now it's for the first time.
Take a look at the shader
and for now it's nothing too exciting because we only have the color
map mixed and it doesn't contain a lot of information right now,
but I do already want to add in another property of the material which is that the
spaces in between the bars are going to be transparent and
be able to have light shining through them.
So what I do for that is at in a transparent BST afternoon
and
mix it
with the shader
and now I need a mask off these halls
which coincidentally is exactly the same mask as I have for the would initially,
which is exactly this,
this is just the
inverse of a mosque for the holes so I can just use it like that,
I only have to take care of the order of
the shader is that I mixed together
and this already gives me the right result. The problem now just is that
for evey transparency is not enabled for the shader
as you can see in cycles. It already is transparent
but to enable it in even as well you can simply scroll
down in the material settings and set the blend mode to something else
for this shader of a clip will do just
fine because there's no semi transparency going to be involved
so it just selected and as you can see
it works as it should
and while I'm already at it,
I'm going to add another functionality to the shader which is
something similar to back face culling.
I don't want the backside of the shader to be or influencing the rendering at all.
So I'm just going to add another mixture later known.
But what I am going to mix with is just an empty shader which is just going to be black.
And as the factor, I'm going to use the geometry node
and the back facing
input,
which just returns a one when you're looking at the back side of the face.
Now let's get back to the wooden shader itself.
We're going to set it up for the use with cycles and displacement.
So what we need is going to be a height map.
This had map is also going to make it look more interesting and Evie,
because we are going to use the displacement also for creating a normal map.
But one thing after the other, let's start setting together the height map here.
We already have the profile of these bars
with these curves.
So each one of these maps here is already a height map for the individual elements.
The only problem is that they are set between zero and 1
and for the horizontal Boris
you actually have to also keep in mind
that this graph is going into negative infinity,
practically.
So that is something to keep in mind when putting together the height map.
So first of all, let's select the correct ranges for the values
the easiest way to do that is. Again using a map range known.
So that's just simply
plug these in here.
I'm going to already
the second one.
Let's go somewhere a little bit more space.
And now you can simply select the height of the top and the bottom
part of the mosque by selecting the two men and two max values.
This is where we are able to control the whole depth profile of the shader.
So you have to be a little bit more careful
when selecting these values because you can
easily get intersections of different elements.
What I'm going to do is place the
vertical bars
directly behind the horizontal bars
and
let's see what we have. These are the vertical bars.
So these are going to be a little bit lower in height.
So let's select the lower end of them as 0.3
And the upper end is 0.4.
Yeah,
Now the horizontal bars are going to be sitting right on top of them.
So they are going to start at 0.4
And then end at 0.5.
Let's combine these two maps by using the maximum node.
So the one on top is actually going to be
used
and now you can see that the vertical bars are gone.
The reason for that is
that the map range known for the horizontal Boris is clamped.
So the minimum value is going to be 0.4 for all of the gaps between the bars.
So here it is actually important
that we have these negative values to be able to include the
to be able to include the vertical bars using the maximum note.
So instead of clamping, I'm just going to leave it as it is.
And here we go,
the vertical bars show up. And additionally
the gaps that were in the negative space
on this note still
Are now on another level,
which is 0.3 because of using the maximum operation with this texture.
Yeah,
So 0.3 is going to be the height that the gaps are going to be at.
And now it's already
Use these four a displacement map to see what we get.
So it's out in a displacement. Known
choose this as the hide map
and plug it into the output.
So right now it is way too high.
Let's go back
quite a bit started to 0.1.
And you can see that the displacement map already
nicely gives us a normal map for these bars
where the profile can still be defined
by these curved notes.
But for now I'm just going to go for something as simple.
There is one thing left to include into the height map,
which are the bolts.
They should also have some detail.
And what I want to do here is have some in Dent,
the height map where the bolts are going to be
to define the height
of these bolts. I'm going to use another map range note.
And now I'm going to use the radio information
from the center to outwards
at the position of the bolts.
Mhm.
Let's just plug that in here.
Yeah.
And now we can define the level of the bolts.
I'm going to set the two men and two max temporarily to zero and one
to be able to actually see what I'm doing.
And now
we can select
where the
and then it is going to be.
And the inner radius here should be exactly the
same radius that we have for the bolts themselves.
So I'm just going to add in a value note to control both at the same time.
This is 0.12. So let's select the same thing
and let's get this done at the
from men.
So when we increase the radius of the bolts,
that's going to affect both the mask
and the height map.
Now we have to choose the from max
as something slightly higher.
And this is going to find the transition
now to be able to still change this radius
without having to manual adapt from max all the time.
I'm just going to use this value again
And at a small value on top like .02,
let's grab the value
and plug it in there.
Maybe points. They were too a little bit small. Let's take point
0.5.
And now we still have to define the correct
minimum and maximum for the actual height
of this map.
And now we have to think back of the height map that we have here.
So the
place where the bolts are going to set is here
Where the maximum of a hype map is reached at 0.5.
So the maximum of this map here should also be 0.5.
And as the minimum,
I'm going to choose something slightly lower to have some small Indian.
Let's go for 0.48.
And as you can see this is barely even visible anymore
And that's why I still kept it on zero and one to define the
range.
So we could actually see what we are doing.
Let's combine it into the height map by using this time a minimum
operation
because now we want to lower the height in the correct parts.
So that's
choose the right maps to combine
and you can't really see that it works but it does believe me,
I can prove that by simply plugging the new height
map into the height input of the displacement node.
Okay.
And if you take a look, you can see that works just as it should
if you want to you can also change the interpolation type to make, it
is smoother transition.
Yeah, that's the basic structure already taken care of
And now that we see what we are doing,
let's just delete these notes that were just for preview.
Next I want to add some more variation and interest to the shader.
So let's first add a little bit of a pattern onto the horizontal bars
which are the main part of the shader itself.
And for that I'm just going to grab the
object coordinates this time
I just want to add a simple stripe pattern.
So what I'm going to do is the exact same thing again that I used for the wooden bars.
Just the separate X, Y. Z. You are going to grab the X coordinate
at a multiply
operation
to scale it up
The Ping Pong operation said to a scale of one
to get the pattern.
And let's choose a input value node
At 200 to get a high frequency stripe pattern.
This pattern.
I want to include into the color map of these horizontal
bars to make it look a little bit more interesting.
And the same over the whole bar,
I'm going to just use a map range known
and choose this output from the ping pong note of the horizontal bars as the value.
What that means is that I'm going to
mix
The two men and two max values
along the range of the center and the edge of these bars.
So if I just plug the stripe pattern that I just generated
Into the two max,
it's going to look like this.
And now I can
choose with the two men
where these edges here go.
And if we take a look back
this is the center of the bars.
And now I can select where the edges of the Boris are.
I'm just going decided to one.
So we just get these striped in dense.
I'm also going to set it to smooth step which
makes the whole pattern look a little bit small,
smooth.
But right now it is only smooth along this axis.
The stripes themselves have still a hard edge.
And to change that,
you can for example,
just use an RGB curves now to control the whole profile of these tribes
and then you can control how they are actually supposed to look like.
And now this map is what I'm going to use to provide the base color map for the wood.
I'm just going to use a color um for this.
Let's take the correct input
and take a look at it,
maybe like this and then plug them into the input for the wooden colour.
And now there's a little bit more interest to the pattern itself.
But for me these stripes are a little bit to synchronous.
So what I want to do is add some randomness
into the mix.
Yeah.
And what I want to do here is at a random angle for each bar
and what we need to be able to do that is
a random value
for each cell
that these bars are in.
So again, I'm just going to use the coordinates that I use for the horizontal bars.
and then I'm going to add a math note
that I said to snap
and the snap operation simply snaps the values
repeatedly in a certain range
where you can choose the increment.
And if you think back to the fact that we
are using a ping pong operation to define the bars,
You can see that again. We have to use an increment of two
because the height of the cells that the bars are in
is to
let's just choose to and as you can see
these increments here have the exact right height
and to generate a random value out of this.
We can simply use a white noise.
Just change the dimension to one because that is what we have.
We have a simple value map
and now we got random colors for all the individual cells of these wooden bars.
Now you could use those colors to add a variation for example in the color of the bars.
But what I want to do is simply add a variation
in the rotation of this pattern that I just created.
So let's put these random values on the side for now
and
at a
vector. A Take note
to the korean space that we're using to create this pattern.
And if I take a look back at the pattern itself,
you can see that now we can
control the rotation.
We don't need all of these parameters here. I'll simply
Change this to zero taxes
and this angle is now exactly what we are going to randomize.
If I just already take this random value and plug it in.
You can see that we already get a nice random rotation And
if you wanted to you could already keep it as this and
use this for the pattern.
But I still want to
map this
random angle into a different range
because the random values that
we have from this white noise texture are
all uniformly distributed between zero and one.
So there are no negative angles
and no angles greater than one.
Now
1 here
does not mean one degree because the angle
that this victory take note takes
when you plug something in
is in radiance.
Other than the value that you can select here which is in degrees.
So to get some more intuitive control
you can add a math notes set to
two radiance
and then
or we can choose here is a number of degrees.
Mhm.
Now obviously one degree is not that much. So the effect is way tuned down.
But now
by adding a
math known set to multiply
we can change the range of these values
instead of having one degree is the maximum
having something else like
60 degree.
But still
we don't have any negative angles.
So I'm also going to add in a subtract note
To subtract 0.5.
I do that before the multiplication. Because that means
if we just take a look at these two knows here.
The values that come out of here are between zero and 1.
And when I subtract the values that I get are between negative 0.5 and positive 0.5.
And when I then multiply with 60
Instead of getting values that are between zero and 60
I got values between negative 30 and positive 30.
So subtracting 0.5 simply centers the values around zero.
Now if you want to be able to control a little bit how these patterns look.
You can simply
you can simply add another node
right before
the snap values going to the white noise texture
and
add a value on top.
This essentially functions like choosing a seed because different values
give us different results for the random values
that the white noise gives us.
So if you don't like a specific pattern you can just choose something else here.
So let's take a look back
at the shader
we are creating
Mhm.
And this already gives us a little bit of variation
but this is still the simple material preview with Evie.
We are setting the shader up for cycles with displacement.
So right now displacement is not yet set up correctly.
And the reason why we don't have any displacement here right
now is that it is not enabled in the material settings.
The displacement that we plug into the material output note
is simply going to be converted as a normal map.
If you also want displacement, you have to change it to displacement and bump.
And now as you can see this height map is actually generating some
displacement in the geometry
and this is a little bit more going into the direction of what we want to create.
Actually, let's go out of the local view and take a look at the shader
in the scene setup.
These computers obviously struggling, which is understandable.
So let's create a render border.
And as you can see we can actually
the pattern that we were looking for.
The height map works nicely with the indians of the bolts.
We have transparency between the bars and the bars are one in front of the other
with the horizontal ones on top.
And we also have this very subtle stripe texture
that is randomly oriented.
But I do want to adjust some PBR maps of the principal PSD F
Western. Going to adjust the roughness
and make it higher.
I'm not going to add in a map that is different
across the shader because that is fitting with the general stylist.
Look that I'm going for.
And I also want the bolts to actually be metallic.
So I simply grab the mask of the bolts
and plug it into the metallic input of the
principal be sdf shader.
I do want to add some more variation.
Let's go back into the material preview and local view
to have it a little bit smoother.
And what I want to do is add in a
noise texture to affect the normals
because right now it looks very smooth
And here I'm actually going to use a different technique
that the one I have presented with the bump maps.
I am simply going to take the
normals from the geometry node
and then manipulate those
because the thing with the bump map is that it is not that easy to process
and simply
manipulating the normals directly is a little
bit easier on the computer and there's no
real need to need to use a bump map to just add some noise.
So what I do is just
create a noise texture. I'm going to use the position coordinates for this one.
So I'm just going to copy this geometry node and use the position coordinates.
And
now I'm going to take the
normals
and manipulate them with
makes RGb known
by plugging them in like this and using the linear light operation,
this very easily distorts the normals
without having to use a bump note.
And if we just
plug this into the normals,
you can see the effect of having some added noise.
Now this is not something I would recommend if you want
to go for pure realism but just to add some variation.
This is a nice and easy technique
and yeah, there's this
the first part of the shader done. We are
where we are creating the
wooden structure
for underneath the plaster.
Let's take a look how it looks
and as you can see now we have some nice variation in the surface.
Okay, so now that this part of the shader is done,
let's go ahead and take on the mask in
between the plaster and the wooden structure underneath.
For that.
I'm just going to copy over the notes set up that we already made for the wall
which is this.
I'm just going to do that by
copying with control C.
And paste them with control V.
And that works nicely here.
And I also gave the network for the wooden structure an additional frame
so we know what it is later on.
Okay, so for this part now
I want to set up the shader in a way that it is controllable with vertex colors.
I talked about that in the chapter about blending and masking.
I also already told you a little bit how to work with that
but here I want to go over it in a little bit more detail
and show you the individual steps so to be able to work with the vertex colors,
we first have to advertise, correlate to the object.
You can just do that in the
mesh settings here
and go to various courage
and click on the plus,
you can also turn off the flea just switching to
vertex paint mode and it automatically creates a layer.
Once you start painting
but you can also add multiple layers here and have
them control individual parts of the share for example.
So that's just going to solve you. So we know what we're doing for now
and go into vertex paint mode
to adjust these settings. You can go here into the active tool settings
and as you can see we have black as our
foreground color and white as our background call selected.
So once we start drawing is going to be
paint it black
and when you had in control it's using the background colors.
So it's going to be so it's going to be painting in white again.
So this is not running super smoothly.
And the reason for that is the high subdivision level
that we have applied to get an accurate displacement.
Now this subdivision level from the modifier does not affect
the resolution that you have available for vertex colors.
That is just the actual resolution of the mesh.
So switching it off for painting doesn't make a difference.
It's still going to be a little bit smoother afterwards when we apply the modifier.
Yeah.
As you can see here
but with the modifier you are not able to paint
in additional detail in between the actual points of the mesh
by the way. You can clear your canvas again
by pressing shift K.
With why does your foreground color selected
and you can simply swap the colors that you're using by pressing X.
So if I white is my foreground color and press shift K.
I get the complete white canvas again.
And I just
simply drawing
a very basic pattern
of black dots
and that's what we're going to use for the base
mask to mix between the plaster and the wooden structure.
So that's adam this vertical area that we just created
the regular name is always just call
and if you just add the viewer note to it, you can see
that is perfectly represented in the shader itself.
We can simply just use it as it is because it's just a black and white mask.
But if you wanted to you could actually even color coded
and use multiple mosques within one vertical
and then you can split the RGB channels like this
to have individual mosques
for different things. But here
it does not make a difference because it's just a black and white mosque.
And for now let's just set it up in a way that it very simply mixes between two shakers
for that. I just
combined the two shakers with a mixed note
and as the mixed factor,
I'm just gonna grab these vertex colors and plug them in here.
So let's take a look what this looks like now
and you can already see a couple of problems
the first one very obviously being that the transparency should not be everywhere,
but only where the wooden structure is exposed.
So we have to combine
this
vertex color
mask with the mask for the transparency as well.
So I just added another mode
and now set it to maximum
to combine it with the vertex colors
which gives us this mask as you can see.
Mhm
And now the transparency only happens in the area
where the when structure is actually exposed
but now because we're using a gradient mosque and not a sharp bullion mosque.
Yeah,
you can see that it doesn't make a difference which type of
transparency will use if you remember I said this to alpha clip
which just checks if the transparency is
above or below a certain threshold
but if it's dead for example, I use alpha blend.
It will actually also consider the values in between and looked like this
but later on we don't want to have a final gradient for the mosque.
So I'm just going to set this back to off
a cliff because this is a little bit more performant.
Okay, so let's address the next problem that we have which is that?
The height mask is still 100% taken from the structure
and this results in a messed up normal map for the parts where the plaster is.
So instead let's also mix the height maps together.
I just use a map range known to mix between them
and I use again the mosque that we created
as the value input and then mix between the
height map for the wooden structure which is this
And a height map for the plaster that we have yet to create. But let's
for now just keep it at one
and as you can see it blends between the height
maps and now it looks a little bit more accurate.
So now we've taken care of the most important parts of mixing these together.
Let's actually address the mosque itself which is
right now still the very simple gradient mosque.
I do want to keep the gradient for now to have a smooth fall off of the height map.
So for now I'm going to add in a map
range note to just adjust the range of this gradient.
I want the level of where it starts to be 100% wooden structure
To be when the value of the Vertex Colors is exactly 0.5.
So I set the from men as .5
And as you can see all the values that were 0.5 are now exactly zero.
And the map is getting a little bit sharper
and now I want to drag the upper
Limit a little bit lower to like 0.7.
So I still have this nice little transition
but it's
much sharper than it was before.
But also I'm going to change this to smooth step to have a more smooth transition
then to get the actual sharp bullying mosque,
I'm adding in a greater than node
set to zero.
So I get a mask of where it's exactly black and where it's anything more than black
and then I have this and this is going to
be the mosque that I'm using to mix between the shoulders
while
this gradient. I'm still going to use for the height map
and now it's already connected in the way I wanted this greater
than note goes into the reroute note that I'm using for the mosque
and if we take a look at this
you can see that now we have a sharp transition
but this mask right now is not reflecting any of the shader itself.
It's just the mask that we painted in
and it looks very artificial. So let's adjust it a little bit.
First I want to add just some variation by using a noise texture
and this noise texture. I'm going to use to adjust the vertex color map that I created
and here it is important that we have these gradients
even though we're getting rid of the gradients right after because
if we use this noise texture to adjust the gradient mosque,
we still have the information from inside and outside of the mosque.
I talked about that in the blending and masking video
and the way I want to
combined these maps is by adding the noise on top.
But if I simply use the noise as it is
you can see that it shifts everything to higher values which is not what I want.
So first I have to
is a subtract node
subtracting 0.5 to center the noise around zero
and then what I do
what you probably see me doing often is adding another multiply node
to scale the effect.
So I get higher
extremes of values.
And now if you take a look at the adjusted mask again you can see
that there is some variation with the noise which we can control with the scaling
and obviously you can control the size of this noise and all the parameters.
And next
I want to do some variation depending on the
base texture of the actual pattern that we use.
Because if we take a look back at the shader
you can see that this noise adds some variation and it looks a little bit nicer.
But still
it's not depending on the texture itself, it looks very unrealistic.
So let's add some dependency on the actual texture
and what I want to use for that is a
base texture of the structure that we're creating here.
And I want to make the distribution of the plaster
depending on these gaps
between the horizontal bars.
Because what the effect I want to create
is to have some plasters stuck in between there
and the base texture. A need for that is simply
the ping pong output
that were used for the horizontal bars
which has exactly what we need a high value in the center and low values outside
and for now I'm gonna add just this on top
but this is not going to be what we end up with because when we take a look at the shader,
it looks like this,
which you know, is interesting but not we wanted
so to adjust this,
I'm going to use a
Rgb curves. Note.
Yeah,
and because of the fact that this ping pong base texture goes from exactly 0 to 1,
we can simply control the whole profile of the curve
with his note
and you can see how much control I have over this now.
So first thing I want to do is
invert the shape
to get it more in the direction of what I was talking about and then
shape it a little bit more by adding a smooth curve on the end here, so we get these nice
round ing's
then I want to create a little bit of a
bump that actually goes inwards a little bit here,
but now the effect is way too strong
so I'll add another multiply node
to tune it down
and with this factor now
I can simply control how strong the effect is supposed to be.
So I do some more adjustments, I want to bump here to be a little bit more subtle
and
maybe the bump on top is not in the right position.
So let's put it a little bit more here
and yeah, this looks more like what I was aiming for
and this is already the basic set up for the mask done.
Let's see how this works when I actually use the vertex painting
and you can see that you have some very nice control
the noise affect the variation with the noise creates these islands of
plaster within areas that are actually completely black in the base mosque.
So if you want less of that you can tune it down.
But yes, just a very nice
effect to be able to just paint in with a simple mask, the material depending
on the base textures themselves
and you can use this effect for all sorts of things.
Now for this shader there's actually only one single thing left to do
apart from creating a frame for these notes
and that is integrating the height map correctly because right now
if you remember we still have this height simply set to one.
Also I said that I want to use the gradient that comes out of this map range. Note
to define the high profile
so let's grab another
color curves. Note
to be able to directly control the profile of this edge
and then another map range note to be able to set
the range of what the height is supposed to be.
So the low part
should be on top of the bars
which was at
0.5
and the top part
can then be chosen, I'm going to take it at
0.6
and this then I can simply plug into the height input for the
plaster which was here
and the height map that results out of this
looks like that then
which has done the full height map of the shader.
And if we take a look at the old thing,
you can see that it looks like this and we got like a nice edge on the sides
and now it even looks a little bit better when you're painting in the plaster
and it's very smooth again if you still have the subdivision on
it will be much more choppy.
But the subdivision is what you need if you want to take a look at the shader
in
cycles rendered view
because without the subdivision there will not be enough
geometry for the displacement to work with. So let's turn this back on
and you can see that this works quite well.
I'm just going to give the second wall the new material as well
as you can see there's not much of a difference.
Let's give this surrender.
And by the power of editing that was super fast for you.
It took five minutes for me with Denoix zing and here we go there.
The shader is with the whole scene
and yeah,
it looks slightly different than what I had which is mostly just the color choice
but there we are, you can do more adjustments or just
paint away
and yeah, this is the dynamic shading set up for the advanced wall shader